>> Steve Kinney: All right,
let's take a tour of one more example.
And again, the goal here is that,
a week from now,
you're like, I could do that thing.
And there's some niceties to this,
yeah, it has to run in VS code.
But you also have to worry about packaging
and distributing entire electron app or
anything along those lines.
You can kind of build
tooling that you need, but
the one other example I kind of want to
show you, which is both super interesting.
And then also, there are a few
things you need to know that
will save you a lot of time
that I will never get back, is,
well, what happens if we wanna
show a UI in VS code, right?
We can do that as well.
This is the same template
that I used earlier.
There are only a few different senses.
I took an annoying evaluate
regex function and
put it in a different file so
you don't have to deal with it.
It has nothing to do with VS Code.
It just maps over some text
with a regular expression.
You can read it if you want, you don't
want to, it's not that bad, it's 30 lines.
And then I took an HTML file.
The important part is, effectively,
your HTML file has to be self-contained,
right?
So extensions are not allowed to access
any kind of network or load any resources.
So it's basically means your
script tags and stuff like that.
It's got a HTML file with your CSS
in it and your JavaScript in it.
Now, does that mean you have to
write all of that in that file?
No, you just need some build tool
that will then collapse in it.
There's a V plug in that does it, there's,
I think, probably do it ES build to.
You just need the end result
to be one JavaScript file?
A lot of the examples you
will see on the internet.
I actually just have a template
string in the file with
no syntax highlighting, and it's gross.
So I at least pulled it out into its own
file so that the syntax highlighting is
pretty, but if this was a more,
really, real thing, again,
there's a V plug in that will take,
yeah, that way you can still use react.
Or Svelte or Vue, or
Angular, or whatever, but
the end result has to be
one portable HTML file.
Your build tools can handle that for
you, right?
I mean, you could even have a template
string where you just pull in the CSS
file and the compiled JavaScript file,
and jam them in there too, right?
But the end result is, no,
you cannot put a script tag that then
loads another file and link,
perhaps, to slyles.css,
it's all got to kind of be in one file,
like this,
which is why i broke it out into it's own
file, because nobody wants to see that.
But one other thing that I did
here that I want to point out,
which is a lot of CSS variables
that I did not define, right?
And what happens is,
when we will open up the inspector,
and you'll see it in a second,
when VS code goes to load the HTML file,
it populates a bunch of CSS variables
based on your theme, right?
So if you wanna make it
look like Hot Dog Stand,
you can put in whatever values you want.
But if you wanna get like, what is
the color of their VS code foreground?
What is the color of their
VS code editor background,
those CSS variables will be set
surrounding your HTML, right?
And so, you can hook into those and
then, I didn't do a perfect job,
cuz I got bored at some point, and
I realized that styling CSS was
not the most important thing I
should be doing at that moment.
It's close enough, but
I'm pulling in basically the stuff
from their VS Code theme and
hopefully showing it roughly in
a way that looks consistent, right?
Button active is a pressed background
button, so on and so forth.
Cool, all right, so
that HTML file, nothing to see.
There a bunch of CSS, a bunch of client
side JavaScript, the way that it works.
And this is where we go back to the few
slides that I made, electron, or
a lot of things, there are actually
workers or anything along those lines.
You can send messages back and
forth between the processes, right?
That extensions main process is all
the node goodness you could ever want.
Doesn't know anything about the DOM.
Your web view knows everything
about the DOM and cannot access.
Yeah, it's like a browser and
a server, right?
But instead of fetch with HTTP calls,
you send messages back and forth, right?
And you could have multiple web views and
they would all talk to
the one node process.
I could spin up these web views, call now.
It's basically having a main thread and
worker threads, right?
That was worth switching all the way
back to keynote, right, I think so.
So in this case, we have the send update,
which is what's gonna happen
when they hit the button or
any of these input changes, and
that's gonna post a message back to say,
hey, run the evaluate regex command,
here's some other data for you, right?
So just send a message back to node
in my extension and run it, right?
But other than that, this otherwise
would have been like a form submit or
a fetch request, right?
Imagine it's a post request in this case,
that metaphor is not wrong.
But let's go back into the extension.
Okay, so given an extension ID,
we've got activate,
which is, we have this open command,
which is we register
the command and we open our little app,
so on and so forth.
This subscription will then unregistered
the command when it gets deactivated.
All right, and in here we go ahead and
we create a web view panel, right?
Like some idea is literally,
this is just a string,
I don't know why I got fancy.
And the title, so
imagine the title element in an HTML file,
that will be what's used in the tab,
where it should load.
So in this point,
I'm gonna do it in view column 1.
You've got one could see
what the other options are.
>> Steve Kinney: There's nine.
The currently active 1 beside
the currently active 1.
Lots of choices, I chose one, why?
I don't know.
You can choose whether or
not JavaScript can run at all, right, so
maybe it's just a static page.
Maybe it's like, hey, give me
the status or run this command, and
I wanna see something giving me like,
let's say if it was like,
you wanted to do that web
pack bundle analysis.
And then,
just show a chart of the biggest packages,
that doesn't need any JavaScript.
And if you donate JavaScript, you could
turn it off because especially if you find
yourself like, yeah,
you're running on their machine.
It's all the scary parts of electron app
and all the great parts at the same time,
where you can load local things from,
great, does get WebView content.
All that I'm doing there is I'm reading
that HTML file that you saw, that's all I.
And so,
beyond that on the did receive message.
You can see it here as well,
which is, if it is that,
evaluate regex 1,
grab the other things off of there,
call the function,
send a message back with the results.
So all of the nodes stuff,
we send it to the main process,
we do the thing, we send it back.
Kind of thing, anything you think about,
the server and client totally works.
It 100% makes it, let's do that,
that's better, right, we can all see.
So we're sending this stuff back and
forth, and that is it,
we're at 80 lines of code,
but not a lot, right?
And so, with that, I explained it all
before you get to see what the thing was.
I did it on purpose because I'm a jerk,
but it's fine.
So here we've got an editor,
you can see I'm in that
extension development host,
I've got the debugger.
>> Steve Kinney: And
now we've got this new command,
open regular expressionist,
which is a little regex playground.
[LAUGH] See, I brought it all together.
[LAUGH] All right,
told you I was gonna do it though.
So where you can test something and
you can say,
>> Steve Kinney: And
wherever the regex matches will highlight.
And so, for all of the other
fun stuff that you are doing,
you can kind of see and
test out your regex in VS code, and
then grab whatever that pattern is and
do something with it, right?
And you can see that mostly if
I were to change the theme,
>> Steve Kinney: Because I'm using those
CSS variables,
we mostly fit into the aesthetic, right?
And everything as well.
But I have additional UI tools that I
can kind of build and play with, right?
And we can argue, did I have to send
the entire string back to node?
No, but
I was trying to make a point, right?
Could I have probably done
this all in the client?
100% I could have.
But it is nice that now this
is a tab that I can just use.
Right, and again,
we could have it just be a sidebar thing.
We could render it somewhere
else if we really wanted to, but
you can see that you could
build full on experiences, and
we could theoretically,
obviously this is its own tab, but
we could beforehand get access to the
current document and do something with it.
And you could find all sorts of
different things that you wanna do.
I just picked something that
mostly to make the joke,
about regex, and, hook it all in.
But you can build everything from that
AI playground all the way up to, yeah,
just simple little tools to maybe
something that makes, a year or two.
As we learn together today,
cuz I did not know,
Tamagotchi pets that live in your editor,
right?
All of these are possible, and
you can kind of extend this thing any way
that you want from a wide
variety of things, right?
And like I said, do I expect that right
now you know exactly what you wanna build.
My hope is that, in a week, or a month,
or six months, you're like, that thing.
>> Steve Kinney: I could do that, right?
And we don't get a lot
of those these days.